Observability as Code Scenarios (#508)
microsoft/code-with-engineering-playbook: observability/readme.md

As much as possible, configuration and management of observability assets such as cloud resource provisioning, monitoring alerts and dashboards must be managed as code. Observability as Code is achieved using any one of Terraform / Ansible / ARM Templates

### Examples of Observability As Code

1. Dashboards as Code - Monitoring Dashboards can be created as JSON or XML templates. This template is source control maintained and any changes to the dashboards can be reviewed. Automation can be built for enabling the dashboard. [More about how to do this in Azure](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-portal/azure-portal-dashboards-create-programmatically). Grafana dashboard can also be [configured as code](https://grafana.com/blog/2020/02/26/how-to-configure-grafana-as-code/) which eventually can be source controlled to be used in automation and pipelines.

> 2. Alerts as Code - Alerts can be created within azure by using Terraform or ARM templates. Such alerts can be source controlled and be deployed as part of pipelines (Azure DevOps pipelines, Jenkins, Github Actions etc.). Few references of how to do this are: [Terraform Monitor Metric Alert](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/azurerm/latest/docs/resources/monitor_metric_alert). Alerts can also be created based on log analytics query and can be defined as code using [Terraform Monitor Scheduled Query Rules Alert](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/azurerm/latest/docs/resources/monitor_scheduled_query_rules_alert#example-usage).

Reviewer: nit: Azure (not azure)

Read more [here](pitfalls.md) to understand what to watch out for while designing and building an observable system.

> ## Examples of Observability As Code

Author: done

> 1. Dashboards as Code- You can create Monitoring Dashboards as Json or XML templates, such templates can be checked into the code repository for source control, any change in the dashboards can be reviewed and automation can be built for enabling the dashboard. [More about how to do this in Azure A](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-portal/azure-portal-dashboards-create-programmatically).

Reviewer 2: Should we also add some reference to grafana dashboards, if any? I am asking about it cause we are mentioning grafana all over the observability section,

Author: done

> 1. Dashboards as Code- You can create Monitoring Dashboards as Json or XML templates, such templates can be checked into the code repository for source control, any change in the dashboards can be reviewed and automation can be built for enabling the dashboard. [More about how to do this in Azure A](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-portal/azure-portal-dashboards-create-programmatically).

Author: done

> 2. Alerts as Code- Alerts can be created within azure by using Terraform or ARM templates. Such alerts can be source controlled and be deployed as part of pipelines(Azure Devops pipelines, Jenkins, Github Actions etc.). Some reference of how to do this are: [Terraform Monitor Metric Alert](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/azurerm/latest/docs/resources/monitor_metric_alert). Alerts can also be created based on log analytics query and can be defined as code using [Terraform Monitor Scheduled Query Rules Alert](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/azurerm/latest/docs/resources/monitor_scheduled_query_rules_alert#example-usage).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Alerts as Code - Alerts can be created within azure by using Terraform or ARM templates. Such alerts can be source controlled and be deployed as part of pipelines (Azure DevOps pipelines, Jenkins, Github Actions etc.). Few references of how to do this are: [Terraform Monitor Metric Alert](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/azurerm/latest/docs/resources/monitor_metric_alert). Alerts can also be created based on log analytics query and can be defined as code using [Terraform Monitor Scheduled Query Rules Alert](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/azurerm/latest/docs/resources/monitor_scheduled_query_rules_alert#example-usage).
```

Author: done

> 3. Automating Log Analytics Queries- There are several use cases where automation of log analytics queries may be needed. Example, Automatic Report Generation, Running custom queries programmatically for analysis, debugging etc. For these use cases to work, log queries should be source controlled and automation can be built using [log analytics REST](https://dev.loganalytics.io/documentation/Using-the-API) or [azure cli](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/cli/azure/ext/log-analytics/monitor/log-analytics?view=azure-cli-latest).

Reviewer: nit: space after Queries

Author: done
